# onetime
One time pad generators, conversion table, and optional encryptor/decryptor.

**generator.py**  
This script generates 1000 character one-time pads. Uses default Python modules.

**twostepgenerator.py**  
This script generates 1000 character one-time pads, with an extra randomization step. A random number `shuffle` is chosen from range 0-9, then a `shuffle` number of cypher characters are generated and discarded before one is generated and added to the cypher string. This is probably overkill, but adds a negligible amount of time to the generation process. Uses default Python modules.

**onetime.py**  
This script can be used to encrypt or decrypt messages in conjunction with the pads generated by the above two scripts. It is *STRONGLY* recommended that you do not use this script on any computer of questionable trustworthiness. Consider using something like TAILS, or another offline live bootable distro. The only thing this script does is take the grunt work out of the encryption and decryption process; everything here can be done by hand with little effort. Uses default Python modules.

**conversiontable.py**  
Prints to screen a table used to convert characters to integer values. It is crucial the same table is used by encryptor and decryptor for a one-time pad to work. Uses default Python modules.

\
One-time pads are a unique form of encryption that is completely unbreakable *provided the following criteria are met:*  
The key must be truly random.  
The key must be at least as long as the plaintext.  
The key must never be reused in whole or in part.  
The key must be kept completely secret.  

In practice, this means that the keys must be generated in advance, and no more than two copies should exist at once. One copy is kept by the message encryptor, and the other is provided to the recipient in advance. Both the message encryptor and recipient should agree in advance on a method of selecting the one-time pad to be used for a given message. This is not always an easy task.

There is also the consideration of the first point - the key must be truly random. The pads generated by these scripts use the Python `secrets` module, which is considered to be cryptographically strong. Is this strong enough for your use case? Well, that's up to you to answer.

For more information on one-time pads, this Wikipedia article is a good start: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-time_pad

\
How to encrypt with one-time pads:  
1) Write a message in plaintext, using only the characters listed in the conversion table:
```
_  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09  

 J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19  

 T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z  .  ?  !  
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29  

 0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  
30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39  

 '  "  ,  +  -  *  /  =  $  :  
40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49  
```
2) Convert the first character of plaintext to an integer using the above table.

3) Convert the first character of the one-time pad to an integer using the above table.

4) Add the two integers together. If the total is greater than or equal to 50, subtract 50 from the result. This is the same as a modulo 50 operation.

5) Convert this new integer to a character using the above table. This is the first encrypted character of your message.

6) Repeat steps 2 through 5 for each remaining character of your plaintext message. This message can now be transmitted to your intended recipient without fear of being cracked, so even known insecure channels may be used.

7) Securely destroy the copy of the one-time pad used to encrypt the message.

\
How to decrypt with one-time pads:
1) Convert the first character of encrypted text to an integer using the above table.

2) Convert the first character of the one-time pad to an integer using the above table.

3) Subtract the integer in step 2 from the integer in step 1. *Order is important here!* If the result is a negative integer, add 50 to it. Again, this is the same as a modulo 50 operation.

4) Convert this new integer to a character using the above table. This is the first decrypted character of your message.

5) Repeat steps 1 through 4 for each remaining character of your encrypted message.

6) Securely destroy the remaining copy of the one-time pad used to decrypt the message.

\
Example encryption:

Plaintext message: HELLO_WORLD!  
First 12 characters of one-time pad: 9R"/W79N1_TO  
```
 H  E  L  L  O  _  W  O  R  L  D  !  
08 05 12 12 15 00 23 15 18 12 04 29  

 9  R  "  /  W  7  9  N  1  _  T  O  
39 18 41 46 23 37 39 14 31 00 20 15  

Integers added (subtract 50 if greater than or equal to 50)  
47 23 03 08 38 37 12 29 49 12 24 44  

Converted to encrypted text  
 =  W  C  H  8  7  L  !  :  L  X  -  
```
\
Example decryption:

Encrypted message: =WCH87L!:LX-  
First 12 characters of one-time pad: 9R"/W79N1_TO  
```
 =  W  C  H  8  7  L  !  :  L  X  -  
47 23 03 08 38 37 12 29 49 12 24 44  

 9  R  "  /  W  7  9  N  1  _  T  O  
39 18 41 46 23 37 39 14 31 00 20 15  

Integers subtracted (add 50 if less than 0)  
08 05 12 12 15 00 23 15 18 12 04 29  

Converted to plaintext  
 H  E  L  L  O  _  W  O  R  L  D  !
